Introduction*Due to a number of complex historical factors, the Louisiana Creole language declined after 1900. The 20th century interwar period only served to marginalize and discourage the use of the language even further. Many languages, like French spoken in Missouri, Mississippi, and Alabama, did not weather the storm.*But Louisiana Creole did. Today, there are hundreds of people all over the world with a desire to learn Louisiana Creole, and many are doing just that everyday. Social media, especially Facebook, has been a powerfully unifying and instructive social tool to inform and engage the public on matters pertaining to the language. Zydeco music fame has helped to popularize and revalorize the language, but its newfound prestige and community value stem from community members leading the movement for greater Louisiana Creole language recognition and learning, and a recent ISO 639 name change from “Louisiana Creole French” to Louisiana Creole.*The contributors of this guide hope to see the language grow rather than decline further. So, we have come together to produce this useful orthography guide for the language. It is not the first, but it will be the first designed specifically for the masses, by Louisianians familiar with the historical and cultural context of the language. We have revisited previous orthographies used to convey Louisiana Creole, and while well-meaning and useful in academic contexts, we found them inadequate. Consequently, we have abandoned use of French, English, and Haitian orthographies all together to craft a writing system that is both familiar and accessible to Americanized Louisiana Creoles. Since community learning has been our objective, it was important for us to consider symbols and sounds with which Louisianians are familiar, and we have used this as our guiding light. Now, Louisiana Creolophones have an orthography which they can proudly claim is uniquely theirs.*We therefore seek to standardize the orthography presented in this guide, which is already in common use. Contributors and consultants on the guide already make use of this orthography, whether in academic publications or on social media. Additionally, the recently launched–and much appreciated– Louisiana Creole Dictionary online also uses this same orthography.*The same patchwork of factors contributing to Louisiana Creole’s decline has also contributed to complexities in taxonomies for the language in English. Race (imposed), ethnic identity (self-ascribed), and the name of the language one speaks, are all intricately interwoven in Louisiana and its diasporic communities. Unlike in other regions of the world, for Louisianians, one’s racial identity tends to inform one’s ethnic identity, both of which determine how one identifies the Louisiana heritage language spoken. Thus, although the language transcends racialized identities, white-identified Louisianians most often self-identify today as Cajun and equally identify the language they speak as “Cajun French” (i.e. Louisiana French). Similarly, black- and mixed-identified Louisianians self-identify mostly as Louisiana Creole and identify the language as “Creole French” or “French Creole.” In reality, many of those white Louisianians are Creolophones, while many of their black and mixed brethren speak Louisiana French.*This has greatly complicated accurate estimations of the number of speakers of Louisiana Creole that remain today. Linguists Ingrid Neumann- Holzschuh and Thomas A. Klingler estimate that fewer than 10,000 speakers exist. They are probably closest to the mark on that figure. Since 1900, wars and industry have reconstituted Louisiana Creolophone communities, and have been cause for out-migrations by the thousands to neighboring Texas, as well as to California, Illinois, and Georgia. Today, it is common to hear Louisiana Creole spoken naturally on Bayou Têche and in some civil parishes along the Mississippi River above New Orleans. Thanks to technologies and genuine interest, more speakers are appearing throughout the nation and world. (Footnote for reference.)*Footnote:*Ingrid Neumann-Holzschuh, Thomas A. Klingler. 2013. "Louisiana Creole structure dataset." In: Michaelis, Susanne Maria & Maurer, Philippe & Haspelmath, Martin & Huber, Magnus (eds.) <i>Atlas of Pidgin and Creole Language Structures Online.</i> Leipzig: Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology. (Available online at http://apics-online.info/contributions/53, Accessed on 2015-12-16.)*